[Music]
volcanic lightning fire rainbows black
holes or water spouts are awe-inspiring
but very rare on the bright side there's
still something you can witness in real
life Solar tsunamis disastrous solar
magnetic field collisions caused
gargantuan tsunamis of plasma these
tsunamis tear across the Sun surface
moving at a speed of 1,000 feet per
second they often last weeks at a time
and happen every decade or so a super
moon you can only see a huge bright ball
in the night sky three or four times a
year a super moon is thirteen percent
bigger and 30% brighter than a regular
full moon you can see this phenomenon
when the moon reaches its perigee the
closest the satellite comes to earth in
its elliptical orbit a harvest mode
giant and orange a harvest moon appears
in this bag close to the beginning of
fall in the times before electricity
farmers had to depend on the full moons
light to harvest crops late into the
night
fire rainbow there must be a unique
combination of several factors for a
rare circumferential arc to appear in
the sky the Sun has to be high in the
sky not less than 58 degrees above the
horizon there must be wispy
high-altitude cirrus clouds made up of
hexagonal ice crystals and these
crystals shaped like thick plates must
have their faces parallel to the ground
a stacker rainbow
if you'll ever see one or several narrow
and more faintly colored bands next to a
rainbows violet edge those are
supernumerary bands also known as a
stacker rainbow the tinier the water
droplets in the air are the broader and
less saturated the bands become volcanic
lightning bolts of lightning can burst
out of an erupting volcano
but they have nothing to do with the
tectonic activity when a cylinder shaped
column of volcanic ash Rises into the
air during eruptions there's often too
much friction between ash particles
static electricity builds up and
suddenly wham bam a lightning bolt tears
through the volcanic blow nay Korea's
clouds these colorful clouds form
extremely high in the atmosphere
twice the commercial airplane cruising
altitude the air at such heights is
especially dry and cold ice crystals in
nae korea's clouds are much smaller than
those that form more common clouds
that's why they scatter light in a
different way creating the iridescent
appearance fire whirls fire whirls look
like spinning columns of ash and flames
they begin with a swirl of wind which
then combines with a heat from a raging
fire this creates a rotating Eddy of air
that grows into a vortex that pulls in
burning debris
particularly huge fire world's can
preach 1,000 feet in height penitentes
these icy spires grow over snow covered
and glaciated regions in the dry Andes
at the height of more than 13,000 feet
some penitentes are just several inches
tall
while others reach 16 feet around three
human heights a black hole not even like
an escape this ultra dense objects
gravitational pull that's why he'll can
ever be seen but the scorching hot disk
of material surrounding it shines bright
enough for a black hole to stand out
against this backdrop astronomers use
data collected by eight radio
observatories on four continents to
piece together an image of a black hole
it was the hall in Messier 87 a big
galaxy 55 million light years away from
Earth
waterspouts waterspouts look like funnel
shaped clouds reaching down from stormy
skies most of them don't pull in water
they're rather weak rotating columns of
air hovering above the water surface
some water spouts begin as dryland
tornadoes then they travel toward a body
of water and turn into severe
thunderstorms with hail high winds and
lightning moon bows there are much rarer
phenomenon than rainbows a moonbow is
caused by moonlight rather than direct
sunlight and the moon has to be near
full moon bows are dim and often seem to
be white they have the entire spectrum
though the human eye is just not
sensitive enough to catch all the colors
meteor showers during this event
you won't need a telescope to enjoy
stargazing meteor showers happen when
streams of cosmic debris enter our
planet's atmosphere at lightning-fast
speeds
meteors all move along parallel
trajectories the glowing streaks appear
in different spots but their tails all
point back to the same place in the sky
the best time to see meteor showers is
after midnight
whirlpools these bodies of rotating
water appear when two opposing currents
meet or when a current runs into an
obstacle the most powerful of them are
called maelstroms their flow currents
can reach speeds of 20 to 25 miles per
hour you can hear the roar coming from
such whirlpools from miles away rainbow
clouds also called iridescent clouds
they form on top of cotton like cumulus
clouds after thunderstorms cumulus
clouds are low-level ones and usually
hover at a height of not higher than
6,000 feet when water vapor in them
condenses water droplets act as prisms
forming multicolored caps over the
clouds supernova thanks to powerful
space telescopes people can now observe
these luminous and powerful stellar
explosions not all stars fade away some
of them burn out and end their lives in
massive cosmic blasts supernova during
such an explosion the matter gets cast
out into space at 9,000 to 25,000 miles
per second hypernova astronomers believe
hypernova can be the most powerful
explosions in the universe since the
times of the Big Bang they're likely to
produce 100 times more energy than
supernovae it's still unclear what
causes hypernova it might be an
explosion of a rapidly spinning
extremely massive star or this star
might have a particularly strong
magnetic field a ring of fire solar
eclipse this kind of solar eclipse is
also called annular this name comes from
the Latin word annulus a ring it occurs
when the moon passes in front of the Sun
but doesn't cover its face completely
leaving a brilliant shining ring around
the dark center
Pele's hair lava these thin threads may
look golden and pretty but they're very
dangerous to pick up the wind sometimes
catches small droplets of lava coming
from active volcanoes these droplets get
carried miles away from the vent and are
stretched into super thin glass wires
also called hair lava some strands can
be as long as six feet fog bows they're
almost white with pale blues on the
inside and faint Reds on the outside you
have higher chances of seeing a fog bow
over water when warm air comes into
contact with much colder water this
phenomenon also occurs when the Sun is
bright and the fog is thin enough for
their light to get through Aurora
this stunning phenomenon is also called
Northern Lights when it occurs in the
Northern Hemisphere and when taking
place in the southern hemisphere
they're called guests ya southern ones
Aurora's happen in Earth's upper
atmosphere they're caused by fast-moving
solar winds that strike the planet's
magnetic bubble called the magnetosphere
Aurora's can take different shapes from
arcs and luminous curtains to patches
and bands an electric blue volcano
khawaja and volcano in Indonesia emits
hot and flammable sulfurous gases they
burst through the rocky surface and come
into contact with oxygen it creates
bright blue flames that can shoot up to
16 feet into the air some of these gases
condensed into liquid sulfur burning it
flows down the slopes and gives an
impression of electric-blue of molten
lava
cut a Tumbo lightning there's a place in
Venezuela where the Catatumbo River
empties into Lake Maracaibo that's where
a unique phenomenon occurs during up to
160 days per year
lightning flashes over the lake surface
more often than anywhere else in the
world up to 280 times in an hour 10
hours a day halo it's a breathtaking
optical phenomenon occurring when the
light from the Sun or the moon gets
reflected from ice crystals in the
atmosphere halos can look like white or
colored rings arcs or simply spots in
the sky
the most common halo types are the
circular halo also called the 22 degree
halo light pillars and sundogs Jupiter's
Great Red Spot the world saw this unique
phenomenon in the photos taken by
Voyager 1 an enormous red hurricane
twice bigger than Earth has been raging
on Jupiter for at least a century and a
half winds that are rather calm at the
storm center travel at a speed of 270 to
420 miles per hour on its edges it's
more than twice faster than the most
powerful storms on earth